# **20.440 Final Project Repository**
# **Overview**
This repo is all of the code and figures generated for our 440 Project. In this repo, you will find the code to produce all figures in the first draft of the
440 final project write up.
All code was written by Blythe Irwin and Justine Shih.
# **Data**
The FPKM data for common rice grown in fresh water and salt water tolerant rice grown in salt water is from Chen et al. (2017). FPKM stands for fragments per 
kilobase of exon per million mapped fragments. This data was generated by sequencing the traanscriptome and mapping the reads to transcripts. The data was 
downloaded from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE102152. Rice gene family annotations were loaded from 
http://rice.uga.edu/annotation_pseudo_current.shtml.

Chen et al. also provided significantly differentially expressed genes upregulated and downregulated between common and sea rice strains cultured in fresh water and sea rice strains cultured in either fresh or sea water. These differentially expressed genes were inputted into agriGO (http://systemsbiology.cau.edu.cn/agriGOv2/index.php) for GO analysis.

Chen, R., Cheng, Y., Han, S. et al. Whole genome sequencing and comparative transcriptome analysis of a novel seawater adapted, salt-resistant rice cultivar 
– sea rice 86. BMC Genomics 18, 655 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-017-4037-3

agriGO v2.0: Tian Tian, Yue Liu, Hengyu Yan, Qi You, Xin Yi, Zhou Du, Wenying Xu, Zhen Su; agriGO v2.0: a GO analysis toolkit for the agricultural community, 2017 update. Nucleic Acids Res 2017 gkx382. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkx382

# **Folder Structure**
In this repo, there are three folders. The first folder, "data" contains the differential gene values, FPKM values, annotation text file, and processed FPKM data file. The second folder, "figures" 
contains the figures outputted by the analysis. The third folder, "python_code" contains the python code used to create the figures and processed dataset.
# **Installation**
To run the code to reproduce my figures, first download the repo, with the python_code, data, and figure folders. In the /python_code folder should be a 
python file, "20440_final_project_figs_data.py". Run the code with the command "python 20440_final_project_figs_data.py" in terminal. This should output multiple bar plots.
```
python 20440_final_project_figs_data.py
```
# **Packages Needed**
```
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
import seaborn as sns
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from sklearn.decomposition import PCA
import plotly.express as px
import scipy as sci
from scipy.cluster.hierarchy import fcluster
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
import sklearn.metrics as sm
```
